[Feature guide] Add end user's IdP information to host vitals (#26989)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/foreign-host-vitals-identity-provider-idp-user-information.md

17. Back in Okta, select **Save**.
18. Under the **Provisioning** tab, select **To App** and then select **Edit** in the **Provisioning to App** section. Enable **Create Users**, **Update User Attributes**, **Deactivate Users**, and then select **Save**.
19. On the same page, make sure that `givenName` and `familyName` have Okta value assigned to it. Currently, Fleet requires the `userName`, `givenName`, and `familyName` SCIM attributes. Delete the rest of the attributes.
![Okta SCIM attributes mapping](../website/assets/images/articles/okta-scim-attributes-mapping.png)

### Assign users and groups to Fleet

To send users and groups information to Fleet, you have to assign them to your new SCIM app.

1. In OKta's main menu **Directory > Groups** and then select **Add group**. Name it "Fleet human-device mapping".
2. On the same page, select the **Rules** tab. Create a rule that will assign users to your  "Fleet human-device mapping" group.
![Okta group rule](../website/assets/images/articles/okta-scim-group-rules.png)
3. In the main menu, select **Applications > Applications**  and select your new SCIM app. Then, select the **Assignments** tab.

> 4. Select **Assign > Assign to Groups** and then select **Assign** next to the "Fleet human-device mapping" group. Then, select **Done**. Now all users that you assigned to the  "Fleet human-device mapping" group will be provisioned to Fleet. It may take a while if you have many users.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Select **Assign > Assign to Groups** and then select **Assign** next to the "Fleet human-device mapping" group. Then, select **Done**. Now all users that you assigned to the  "Fleet human-device mapping" group will be provisioned to Fleet.
```

13. Select **Finish** to save your configuration. 
14. After few minutes, on the **Directory > Users** page, you should see users from your Google Workspace.

#### Step 5: Map users to hosts in Fleet

1. From the side menu, select **Applications > Providers**, **Create**, **SCIM Provider**, and then **Next**.
2. Add a friendly name (e.g. "Fleet SCIM provider").
3. For the **URL**, enter `https://<your_fleet_server_url>/api/v1/fleet/scim`.
4. Create a Fleet API-only user with maintainer permissions and copy API token for that user (learn how [here](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleetctl#create-api-only-user)). Paste your API token in the **Token** field.
5. Select **Finish** to save provider.
6. Now, from the side menu, select **Applications > Applications**. Then, select **Create**.
7. Add a friendly name (e.g. "Fleet SCIM app") and slug (e.g. "fleet-scim-app").
8. For the **Backchannel Providers**, select the provider created above ("Fleet SCIM provider").
9. Select **Create** to add the application.
10. After few minutes, you should see users mapped to hosts in Fleet.

> ## Verify connection in Fleet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verify connection
```

After following steps above, you should be able to see latest requests from Okta to Fleet if you
navigate to **Settings > Integrations > Identity Provider (IdP)**. 

To verify that user information is added to a hosts, go to the host that has IdP email assigned, and
verify that **Full name (IdP)** and **Groups (IdP)** are populated correctly.

> ### Troubleshoot errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Troubleshooting
```

What do you think?

    saved, select close icon on the top right corner.
![Entra SCIM attributes mapping for groups](../website/assets/images/articles/entra-group-scim-attributes.png)    
12. Select **Provision Microsoft Entra ID Users**.
13. Ensure that the attributes `userName`, `givenName`, `familyName`, `active`, and `externalId` are
    mapped to **Microsoft Entra ID Attribute**. Currently, Fleet requires the `userName`, `givenName`, and `familyName` SCIM attributes. Delete the rest of the attributes. Then, elect **Save** and select the close icon on the top right corner.
![Entra SCIM attributes mapping for users](../website/assets/images/articles/entra-user-scim-attributes.png)  
14. Next, from the side menu, select **Users and groups** , **+ Add user/group**, and **None Selected**.
15. Select the users and groups that you want to add to Fleet and then select **Assign**. 
16. From the side menu, select **Overview** and select **Start provisioning**.

Now, Microsoft Entra ID will send data to Fleet immediately. Future requests happen every 20-40 minutes. So, if you edit user information in Entra, it might take up to 40 minutes to see the change in Fleet.

## Google Workspace

> Google Workspace doesn't natively support the [SCIM](https://scim.cloud/) standard. The best practice is to import users to [authentik](https://goauthentik.io/). Authentik then adds users to Fleet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Workspace doesn't natively support the [SCIM](https://scim.cloud/) standard. The best practice is to export users to [authentik](https://goauthentik.io/). Authentik then adds users to Fleet.
```

10. From the side menu, select **Attribute mapping** and then select **Provision Microsoft Entra ID Groups**.
11. Ensure that the attributes `displayName`, `members`, and `externalId` are mapped to **Microsoft Entra ID Attribute**. Currently, Fleet support only these attributes and they are required as well. Delete the rest of the attributes, select **Save**, and after it's
    saved, select close icon on the top right corner.
![Entra SCIM attributes mapping for groups](../website/assets/images/articles/entra-group-scim-attributes.png)    
12. Select **Provision Microsoft Entra ID Users**.
13. Ensure that the attributes `userName`, `givenName`, `familyName`, `active`, and `externalId` are
    mapped to **Microsoft Entra ID Attribute**. Currently, Fleet requires the `userName`, `givenName`, and `familyName` SCIM attributes. Delete the rest of the attributes. Then, elect **Save** and select the close icon on the top right corner.
![Entra SCIM attributes mapping for users](../website/assets/images/articles/entra-user-scim-attributes.png)  
14. Next, from the side menu, select **Users and groups** , **+ Add user/group**, and **None Selected**.

> 15. Select the users and groups that you want to add to Fleet and then select **Assign**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
15. Select the users and groups that you want to map to hosts in Fleet and then select **Assign**. 
```

I think we want to be explicit about "host mapping" in this guide. Instead of just saying "add users and groups". 

Why? We already know there's going to be confusion around Fleet not having a users table. Fleet is doing human-device mapping.

Author: Makes sense.

16. From the side menu, select **Overview** and select **Start provisioning**.

> > After you started provisioning Microsoft Entra ID sends data to Fleet immediately. Subsequent
> > requests are triggered every 20-40 minutes. If you edit user information in Entra, it might
> > take up to 40 minutes to see the change in Fleet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, Microsoft Entra ID will send data to Fleet immediately. Future requests happen every 20-40 minutes. So, if you edit user information in Entra, it might take up to 40 minutes to see the change in Fleet.
```

17. Back in Okta, select **Save**.
18. Under the **Provisioning** tab, select **To App** and then select **Edit** in the **Provisioning to App** section. Enable **Create Users**, **Update User Attributes**, **Deactivate Users**, and then select **Save**.
19. On the same page, make sure that `givenName` and `familyName` have Okta value assigned to it. Currently, Fleet requires the `userName`, `givenName`, and `familyName` SCIM attributes. Delete the rest of the attributes.
![Okta SCIM attributes mapping](../website/assets/images/articles/okta-scim-attributes-mapping.png)

### Assign users and groups to Fleet

To send users and groups information to Fleet, you have to assign them to your new SCIM app.

1. In OKta's main menu **Directory > Groups** and then select **Add group**. Name it "Fleet human-device mapping".
2. On the same page, select the **Rules** tab. Create a rule that will assign users to your  "Fleet human-device mapping" group.
![Okta group rule](../website/assets/images/articles/okta-scim-group-rules.png)
3. In the main menu, select **Applications > Applications**  and select your new SCIM app. Then, select the **Assignments** tab.

> 4. Select **Assign > Assign to Groups** and then select **Assign** next to the "Fleet human-device mapping" group. Then, select **Done**. Now all users that you assigned to the  "Fleet human-device mapping" group will be provisioned to Fleet. It may take a while if you have many users.

Reviewer: > It may take a while if you have many users.

How long? 1 hour? Can we give the user a more specific estimate here?

Author: @noahtalerman I'm not sure. I assumed this and wanted to mention it because I think it won't be instant if there are, for example, 10,000 users. We could omit this and find out how much time it actually takes. If it's too long, we can add that to the guide.

Reviewer: @marko-lisica when you tested Okta with only a couple users how fast was it?

If it was quick I think we can omit this and add it back when we learn from our customers that it's slower at scale.

Author: It was almost instant for 5 users. I removed it for now.

5. On the same page, select **Push Groups** tab. Then, select **Push Groups > Find groups by name** and add all groups that you assigned to "Fleet human-device mapping" group previously (make sure that **Push group memberships immediately** is selected). All groups will be provisioned in Fleet, and Fleet will map those groups to users.

## Microsoft Entra ID

To connect Entra ID to Fleet, follow these steps:

> 1. Head to [Microsoft Entra admin](https://entra.microsoft.com/).
> 2. Select **Applications > Enterprise applications** in the main menu, select **+ New
>    application**, then select **+Create your own application**.
> 3. Add a friendly name of the app (e.g Fleet SCIM), select **Integrate any other application you
>    don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)**, then select **Create**.
> 4. Select **Provisioning** from the side menu.
> 5. In **Get started with application provisioning** section, select **Connect your application**.
> 6. In **Tenant URL**, enter `https://<your_fleet_server_url>/api/v1/fleet/scim`.
> 7. Create Fleet API-only user with maintainer permissions, copy API token for that user, and paste
>    it in **Secret token** field.
> 8. Select **Test connection** button. You should see success message.
> 9. Select **Create** and after successfull creation, you'll be redirected to the overview page.
> 10. Select **Attribute mapping** from the side menu, then select **Provision Microsoft Entra ID
>     Groups**.
> 11. Ensure that the attributes `displayName`, `members`, and `externalId` are
>     mapped to **Microsoft Entra ID Attribute**. Currently, Fleet support only these attributes and they are required as well. Delete the rest of the attributes, select **Save**, and after it's
>     saved, select close icon on the top right corner.
> ![Entra SCIM attributes mapping for groups](../website/assets/images/articles/entra-group-scim-attributes.png)    
> 12. Select **Provision Microsoft Entra ID Users**.
> 13. Ensure that the attributes `userName`, `givenName`, `familyName`, `active`, and `externalId` are
>     mapped to **Microsoft Entra ID Attribute**. Currently, Fleet support only these attributes and
>     they are required as well. Delete the rest of the attributes, select **Save**, and after it's
>     saved, select close icon on the top right corner.
> ![Entra SCIM attributes mapping for users](../website/assets/images/articles/entra-user-scim-attributes.png)  
> 14. Select **Users and groups** from the side menu, select **+ Add user/group**, then select
>     **None Selected** link.
>     
> 15. Select users and groups that you want to add to Fleet, then select
>     **Assign**. 
> 16. Select **Overview** from the side menu and select **Start provisioning**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Head to [Microsoft Entra](https://entra.microsoft.com/).
2. In the main menu, select **Applications > Enterprise applications**. Then, select **+ New
   application** and **+Create your own application**.
3. Add a friendly name for the app (e.g. Fleet SCIM), select **Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)**, and select **Create**.
4. From the side menu, select **Provisioning**.
5. In **Get started with application provisioning** section, select **Connect your application**.
6. For the **Tenant URL**, enter `https://<your_fleet_server_url>/api/v1/fleet/scim`.
7. Create a Fleet API-only user with maintainer permissions and copy API token for that user (learn how [here](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleetctl#create-api-only-user)). Paste your API token in the **Secret token** field.
8. Select the **Test connection** button. You should see success message.
9. Select **Create** and, after successful creation, you'll be redirected to the overview page.
10. From the side menu, select **Attribute mapping** and then select **Provision Microsoft Entra ID Groups**.
11. Ensure that the attributes `displayName`, `members`, and `externalId` are mapped to **Microsoft Entra ID Attribute**. Currently, Fleet support only these attributes and they are required as well. Delete the rest of the attributes, select **Save**, and after it's
    saved, select close icon on the top right corner.
![Entra SCIM attributes mapping for groups](../website/assets/images/articles/entra-group-scim-attributes.png)    
12. Select **Provision Microsoft Entra ID Users**.
13. Ensure that the attributes `userName`, `givenName`, `familyName`, `active`, and `externalId` are
    mapped to **Microsoft Entra ID Attribute**. Currently, Fleet requires the `userName`, `givenName`, and `familyName` SCIM attributes. Delete the rest of the attributes. Then, elect **Save** and select the close icon on the top right corner.
![Entra SCIM attributes mapping for users](../website/assets/images/articles/entra-user-scim-attributes.png)  
14. Next, from the side menu, select **Users and groups** , **+ Add user/group**, and **None Selected**.
15. Select the users and groups that you want to add to Fleet and then select **Assign**. 
16. From the side menu, select **Overview** and select **Start provisioning**.
```

12. For **Supported provisioning actions**, select **Push New Users**, **Push Profile Updates**, and **Push Groups**.
13. For **Authentication Mode** select **HTTP Header**.
14. Create Fleet API-only user with maintainer permissions, copy API token for that user, and paste it to Okta, in **Authorization** field.
15. Select the **Test Connector Configuration** button. You should see success message in Okta.
16. In Fleet, head to **Settings > Integrations > Identity provider (IdP)** and verify that Fleet successfully received the request from IdP.
17. Back in Okta, select **Save**.
18. Under the **Provisioning** tab, select **To App** and then select **Edit** in the **Provisioning to App** section. Enable **Create Users**, **Update User Attributes**, **Deactivate Users**, and then select **Save**.
19. On the same page, make sure that `givenName` and `familyName` have Okta value assigned to it. Currently, Fleet requires the `userName`, `givenName`, and `familyName` SCIM attributes. Delete the rest of the attributes.
![Okta SCIM attributes mapping](../website/assets/images/articles/okta-scim-attributes-mapping.png)

### Assign users and groups to Fleet

> To send users and groups information to Fleet, you have to assign them to SCIM app that you created previously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send users and groups information to Fleet, you have to assign them to your new SCIM app.
```

> 1. Select **Directory > Groups** in the main menu, then select **Add group**. Name it so you know that users from this group will be provisioned to Fleet (e.g "Fleet human-device mapping").
> 2. On the same page, select **Rules** tab. Create rule that will assign users from groups that you want to provision to Fleet to newly created "Fleet human-device mapping" group.
> ![Okta group rule](../website/assets/images/articles/okta-scim-group-rules.png)
> 3. Select **Applications > Applications** in the main menu, select app that you created previously, then select **Assignements** tab.
> 4. Select **Assign > Assign to Groups**, then click **Assign** next to the "Fleet human-device mapping" group, then select **Done**. Now all users that you assigned to "Fleet human-device mapping" group via rule will be provisioned to Fleet. It may take a while if you have many users.
> 5. On the same page, select **Push Groups** tab, then select **Push Groups > Find groups by name**,
>    and add all groups that you assigned via rule to "Fleet human-device mapping" group previously (make sure that
>    **Push group memberships immediately** is selected). All groups will be provisioned to
>    Fleet, and Fleet will map those groups to already provisioned users .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In OKta's main menu **Directory > Groups** and then select **Add group**. Name it "Fleet human-device mapping".
2. On the same page, select the **Rules** tab. Create a rule that will assign users to your  "Fleet human-device mapping" group.
![Okta group rule](../website/assets/images/articles/okta-scim-group-rules.png)
3. In the main menu, select **Applications > Applications**  and select your new SCIM app. Then, select the **Assignments** tab.
4. Select **Assign > Assign to Groups** and then select **Assign** next to the "Fleet human-device mapping" group. Then, select **Done**. Now all users that you assigned to the  "Fleet human-device mapping" group will be provisioned to Fleet. It may take a while if you have many users.
5. On the same page, select **Push Groups** tab. Then, select **Push Groups > Find groups by name** and add all groups that you assigned to "Fleet human-device mapping" group previously (make sure that **Push group memberships immediately** is selected). All groups will be provisioned in Fleet, and Fleet will map those groups to users.
```

# Foreign host vitals: identity provider (IdP) user information

![Import users from IdP to Fleet](../website/assets/images/articles/add-users-from-idp-cover-img.png)

_Available in Fleet Premium._

> Fleet supports [Okta](#okta), [Microsoft Active Directory (AD) / Entra ID](#microsoft-entra-id), [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [authentik](#google-workspace),as well as any other identity provider (IdP) that supports the [SCIM](https://scim.cloud/) standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fleet supports [Okta](#okta), [Microsoft Active Directory (AD) / Entra ID](#microsoft-entra-id), [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [authentik](#google-workspace), as well as any other identity provider (IdP) that supports the [SCIM](https://scim.cloud/) standard.
```

> Fleet supports [Okta](#okta), [Microsoft Active Directory (AD) / Entra ID](#microsoft-entra-id), [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [authentik](#google-workspace), as well as any other identity provider (IdP) that supports the [SCIM](https://scim.cloud/) standard.
> 
> To add IdP host vitals, follow steps for your IdP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add IdP host vitals, like the end user's groups and full name, follow steps for your IdP. Fleet supports [Okta](#okta), [Microsoft Active Directory (AD) / Entra ID](#microsoft-entra-id), [Google Workspace](#google-workspace), [authentik](#google-workspace), as well as any other identity provider (IdP) that supports the [SCIM](https://scim.cloud/) standard.
```

After reading this again, I think we swap sentences to start with what the user wants to do. Add end user info.

## Okta

To connect Okta to Fleet, follow these steps:

> 1. Head to Okta admin dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Head to Okta admin dashboard.
```

> 2. Select **Applications > Applications** in the main menu, then select **Create App Integration**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the main menu, select **Applications > Applications**, then select **Create App Integration**.
```

I think it's a good idea to start with the menu here. First go to the menu, then...

3. Select **SAML 2.0** option and select **Next**.

> 4. On **General Settings** page, add friendly **App name** (e.g Fleet SCIM), and select **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. On the **General Settings** page, add a friendly **App name** (e.g Fleet SCIM), and select **Next**.
```

Articles here.

> 5. On **SAML Settings** page, add any URL to **Single sign-on URL** and **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)** fields, and select **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. On the **SAML Settings** page, add any URL to the **Single sign-on URL** and **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)** fields, and select **Next**.
```

> >Okta requires to setup SAML settings in order to setup SCIM integration. Since we don't need SSO, URL can be anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Okta requires us to setup SAML settings in order to setup a SCIM integration. Since we don't need SAML right now, you can set the URL to anything like "example.fleetdm.com".
```

We can suggest a URL right?

Author: Yes, we can. Can be anything.

> 6. On **Feedback** page, provide feedback if you want, and select **Finish**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. On the **Feedback** page, provide feedback if you want, and select **Finish**.
```

> 7. Select **General** tab of the newly created app, then select **Edit** in **App Settings**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Select the **General** tab in your newly created app and then select **Edit** in **App Settings**.
```

> 8. For **Provisioning**, select **SCIM**, and select **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. For **Provisioning**, select **SCIM** and select **Save**.
```

> 9. Select **Provisioning** tab, then in **SCIM Connection**, select **Edit**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Select the **Provisioning** tab, then in **SCIM Connection**, select **Edit**.
```

> 10. In **SCIM connector base URL**, enter `https://<your_fleet_server_url>/api/v1/fleet/scim`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. For the **SCIM connector base URL**, enter `https://<your_fleet_server_url>/api/v1/fleet/scim`.
```

> 11. In **Unique identifier field for users**, enter `userName`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. For the **Unique identifier field for users**, enter `userName`.
```

> 12. For **Supported provisioning actions**, select **Push New Users**, **Push Profile Updates**, and **Push Groups**.
> 13. For **Authentication Mode** select **HTTP Header**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. For the **Supported provisioning actions**, select **Push New Users**, **Push Profile Updates**, and **Push Groups**.
13. For the **Authentication Mode**, select **HTTP Header**.
```

> 14. Create Fleet API-only user with maintainer permissions, copy API token for that user, and paste it to Okta, in **Authorization** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
14. Create a Fleet API-only user with maintainer permissions and copy API token for that user (learn how [here](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleetctl#create-api-only-user)). Paste your API token in Okta's **Authorization** field.
```

Reviewer: I think let's help the user create an API-only user.

> 15. Select **Test Connector Configuration** button. You should see success message in Okta.
> 16. Head to Fleet, select **Settings > Integrations > Identity provider (IdP)** and verify that Fleet successfully received the request from IdP.
> 17. Back in Okta, select **Save**
> 18. Under **Provisioning** tab, select **To App**, then select **Edit** in **Provisioning to App** section. Enable **Create Users**, **Update User Attributes**, and **Deactivate Users**, then select **Save**.
> 19. On the same page, make sure that `givenName` and `familyName` have Okta value assigned to it.
>     Currently, Fleet support `userName`, `givenName`, and `familyName` SCIM attributes and they are
>     required as well. Delete the rest of the attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
15. Select the **Test Connector Configuration** button. You should see success message in Okta.
16. In Fleet, head to **Settings > Integrations > Identity provider (IdP)** and verify that Fleet successfully received the request from IdP.
17. Back in Okta, select **Save**.
18. Under the **Provisioning** tab, select **To App** and then select **Edit** in the **Provisioning to App** section. Enable **Create Users**, **Update User Attributes**, **Deactivate Users**, and then select **Save**.
19. On the same page, make sure that `givenName` and `familyName` have Okta value assigned to it. Currently, Fleet requires the `userName`, `givenName`, and `familyName` SCIM attributes. Delete the rest of the attributes.
```
